>> Mike North: This is probably one of
the most valuable things that I'm going to
teach you in this workshop, and
it is a recipe for
converting from JavaScript to TypeScript.
So one of the great things
about TypeScript is it can
inter-operate with JavaScript very,
very easily.
You're gonna have JS and
TS modules side by side.
You can import in one direction or
the other and everything will be okay.
Not a lot of programming
languages give you this.
So we shouldn't treat a transition
from JavaScript to TypeScript
as the same kind of change to a code
base that would result from a change
in one programming language to
something totally unrelated.
It's like rewriting
something from Ruby to Rust.
That is like apples and oranges, right?
So I'm gonna lead you down a three-step
process that will make it so
this change can be made incrementally
on a couple of files at a time.
Or in multiple passes where you get
to the endpoint you are looking
to get without potentially running
into creating extra work for
yourself or disruption for
people who depend on that code.
First, let's talk about what not to do.
What you don't want to do is mix
a conversion from JavaScript to
TypeScript with functional changes,
and these can be subtle.
It can be the difference
between checking whether
a value is truthy or
not to a type of check, right?
Is this truth versus check whether
this value is undefined, no zero and
empty string are gonna
be handled differently.
So you want to avoid even those kinds
of functional changes if you can.
You don't want to try this kind of
conversion if your test coverage is
really low.
Because after each of our three steps run
a test sweep like your test sweep for
this piece of code, and ensure that not
only have we converted to TypeScript,
but the library still works
the way we want it to work.
>> Mike North: You don't want to let
the perfect be the enemy of the good.
And in this sense what I mean is don't try
to type things too strongly, too early on.
Your goal is to get converted, and you'll
start to see some benefits of the strong
typing, but don't chase those benefits
by trying to type things up prematurely.
You want to get converted over and
then start applying stronger
typing where things make sense.
The reason for this is, particularly if
you convert a few files at a time, and
you have some very strongly typed things.
As soon as you convert some of the other
files that interact with your already
strong code, you don't have a chance
to start out with sort of weak types.
Cuz your constraints
are already very tight, right?
In one part of your app.
So you kind of want to
remember the goal is,
get converted and
then we'll ratchet things up.
Don't forget to add tests for your types.
Again, dts lint is the way you write
tests that's specifically are for
type information only.
And also particularly for libraries,
don't try to publish types for
consumer use until you're happy with them.
Because people take type information
that comes along with the library as
an indication of a public API.
What you should do and what you shouldn't.
Remember, it's developer intent.
If you wrote this code in
TypeScript in the first place,
those types would express what you can
do and can't do with piece of code.
So if you prematurely have
people using this stuff, and
there's a bunch of looseness all over
the place, you can lead them on a wild
goose chase where they're assuming
things should be doable and valid.
And in fact that's not the case.